Civil partnership dissolution table of contents












                Ending a civil partnership
              



                Finances in civil partnership dissolution
              



                Is an application needed to end civil partnership?
              



                What is a conditional order?
              



                Alternatives to ending a civil partnership
              










Back to table of contents






Ending a civil partnership in England or Wales
You are required to have been in a civil partnership for at least a year before you can apply to the court to end it, this is called dissolving a civil partnership. You are not free to enter into another civil partnership until this process is complete and you have received the final order.
To dissolve a civil partnership, you or your partner will need to make an application stating that the relationship has irretrievably broken down.
It's not possible for one person to contest a civil partnership dissolution, unless this is on the basis of jurisdiction.













How much does a civil partnership dissolution cost?
At Co-op Legal Services our fixed fee civil partnership dissolution service costs £600 including VAT.
Please note, in addition to our fixed fee a court fee of £593 will be payable directly to the court.
We will agree our legal fee with you upfront before any legal work starts. Once we have provided you with a written quote for the agreed work to be done on your civil partnership dissolution, that price will not change.














To help you clearly understand your legal position, book an immediate comprehensive consultation for £120.



 
0203 876 0515


                  Request a callback














Resolving money matters in civil partnership dissolution
When you dissolve your civil partnership, the final order will not resolve any financial commitments you have from the civil partnership. You will need to make a financial application to the court to resolve these issues and sever any financial ties you have to your ex-partner.
If you both agree on how to divide your finances, you can apply to the court for a financial order. If you can't agree, you may want to instruct a solicitor to negotiate a financial agreement for you. This is called a contested financial order.
We recommend that you resolve your money matters alongside dissolving your civil partnership. Depending on your circumstances, we might recommend delaying the application to finalise the civil partnership dissolution until your money matters have been resolved.
Find out more about resolving your finances during a civil partnership dissolution.













Is an application needed to dissolve a civil partnership?
When beginning a civil partnership dissolution, an application to dissolve your civil partnership must be completed and submitted to the court.
This is the application form used to issue either divorce or civil partnership dissolution proceedings, and is commonly referred to as the 'application.' The person who submits this form is called the applicant. It's also possible for a couple to make this application jointly. 
The application must state that the relationship has irretrievably broken down.













What is a conditional order in civil partnership dissolution?
A conditional order is the first of two court orders that must be made before a civil partnership can legally end.
As long as the court is satisfied with the application for the civil partnership dissolution, it will be approved. Once the court has agreed that you can end your civil partnership, they will issue the conditional order.
After the conditional order has been pronounced, the applicant must wait until 20 weeks has passed since the application was submitted, then they can apply for a final order. The final order is the final stage of the civil partnership dissolution process and will legally end the civil partnership.













Any alternatives to dissolving a civil partnership?
If you want to separate from your civil partner but don’t want to dissolve the partnership, or it has been less than a year since you registered your civil partnership, you can apply to the court for a separation order.  
If you get a separation order and want to dissolve your civil partnership at a later stage, your family law solicitors can support you with this.









Award winning



















Innovative family law services



Co-op Legal Services family law team awarded excellence in technology and innovation by the Law Society.












About Co-op Legal Services




The family law team at Co-op Legal Services includes specialist family solicitors, divorce solicitors and children law solicitors with Resolution accreditation and accredited experts in child abduction, co-habitation, domestic abuse, property disputes, high net worth money matters and financial advocacy.
Resolution is a national organisation of family lawyers committed to non-confrontational divorce, separation and other family problems.






As part of the Co-op Group, our values of openness, honesty, social responsibility and caring for others are core to the service we provide.






Co-op Legal Services has over 600 staff working in different businesses with offices in Manchester, Bristol, Stratford-upon-Avon, Sheffield and London.









Related articles



















20 January 2023
Do unmarried couples have legal rights?


                    In England and Wales there is no common law marriage. Couples who are not married or in a civil partnership are not recognised by law.
                























01 December 2021
How to get through the first Christmas without the kids


                    If you're facing the first Christmas without your children after divorce and are wondering how to get through it, we offer some guidance
                























26 July 2021
Rights to property after separation


                    If you’re not married and your name is not on any official paperwork, like the mortgage or property title, it’s very likely your ex will keep the house
                














Family law 



					Divorce solicitors
			



					Custody of children
			



					Cohabitation agreement
			



					Prenuptial and postnuptial agreement
			



					Separation agreements
			






                  Show more
                










					Children in divorce
			



					Court orders
			



					Legal services for unmarried couples
			



					Family Law experts
			



					Customer testimonials
			



					No fault divorce
			



					International divorce solicitors
			



					Military divorce solicitors
			



					Money matters in divorce/n